# The Florida Environmental Crisis

* [What is nutrient pollution?](https://oceanservice.noaa.gov/facts/nutpollution.html)
* [The History of Everglades Restoration](https://evergladeslaw.org/everglades-timeline/)
* [Red Tide in Florida and Texas](https://oceanservice.noaa.gov/news/redtide-florida/)
* [Nonpoint Source Pollution: Point Source](https://oceanservice.noaa.gov/education/tutorial_pollution/03pointsource.html)
* [Nonpoint Source Pollution: Nonpoint Source](https://oceanservice.noaa.gov/education/tutorial_pollution/04nonpointsource.html)
* [Water managers declare Everglades nearly clean; the people who live there say not yet](https://www.miamiherald.com/news/local/environment/article136361188.html)
* [What is causing Florida’s algae crisis? 5 questions answered](http://theconversation.com/what-is-causing-floridas-algae-crisis-5-questions-answered-101305)
* [FDEP Trend Monitoring Network – Surface Water Trends](http://fdep.maps.arcgis.com/apps/MapJournal/index.html?appid=a8eaa0108a7840d1895b7ad4d7729a26&webmap=3d3ca2dfa2f842bb9d550733e2cea77d#map)

## Other history

They've been messing with everything since the 1840's. It's basically an extension of the Second and Third Seminole Wars [1].

"The Second Seminole War (1835–1842) was the result of the United States government attempting to force the Seminoles to leave Florida altogether and move to Indian Territory per the Indian Removal Act of 1830. Fighting began with the Dade Massacre in December 1835, and raids, skirmishes, and a handful of larger battles raged throughout the Florida peninsula over the next few years. At first, the outgunned and outnumbered Seminoles effectively used guerrilla warfare to frustrate the ever more numerous American military forces. In October 1836, General Thomas Sidney Jesup was sent to Florida to take command of the campaign. After futilely chasing bands of Seminole warriors through the wilderness, Jesup changed tactics and began seeking out and destroying Seminole farms and villages, a strategy which eventually changed the course of the war. Jesup also authorized the controversial captures of Seminole leaders Osceola and Micanopy under signs of truce. By the early 1840s, most of the Seminole population in Florida had been killed in battle, ravaged by starvation and disease, or relocated to Indian Territory. Several hundred Seminoles were allowed to remain in an unofficial reservation in southwest Florida."[1]

"The Third Seminole War (1855–1858) was again the result of Seminoles responding to settlers and U.S. Army scouting parties encroaching on their lands, perhaps deliberately to provoke a violent response that would result in the removal of the last of the Seminoles from Florida. After an army surveying crew found and destroyed a Seminole plantation west of the Everglades in December 1855, Chief Billy Bowlegs led a raid near Fort Myers, setting off a conflict which consisted mainly of raids and reprisals, with no large battles fought. American forces again strove to destroy the Seminoles' food supply, and in 1858, most of the remaining Seminoles, weary of war and facing starvation, agreed to be shipped to Oklahoma in exchange for promises of safe passage and cash payments to their chiefs. An estimated 200 Seminoles still refused to leave and retreated deep into the Everglades and the Big Cypress Swamp to live on land that was unwanted by white settlers."[1]

"The Everglades is essentially a 50-mile river, thus nicknamed "River of Grass" by Marjory Stoneman Douglass. Before the Army Corps of Engineers diverted water flow in the mid 1940's, water flowed from Lake Okeechobee southward emptying into Florida Bay and the Gulf of Mexico. In the summer (the rainy season), water overflowed Lake Okeechobee and the river moved about one half mile per day. In the early 1900's, a dike installed at the south end of Lake Okeechobee controlled flooding (Derr, 1989)."[2]

"However, flooding then became controlled by man. When the water level rose too high the floodgates were opened and Miccosukee land flooded. This was most evident in 1992 when excessive rain and flooding resulted in the opening of floodgates near Okeechobee. The reservation along US 41 was so severely flooded that several hundred deer were killed."[2]

"In 1850, the Swamp Lands Act was passed and gave ownership of much of the area in the Everglades to the state for agricultural use once the area was drained (Derr 1989). The alteration of Everglades natural water flow began as early as 1892. A surveyor for the Henry Plant rail line intended to include a line that would cross the upper Everglades to Lake Okeechobee and on to Biscayne Bay. He concluded that crossing the Everglades was too difficult and agriculture was better land utilization. In 1905, then governor Napoleon Bonaparte Broward established a Board of Drainage Commissioners to dig canals from Lake Okeechobee to the west and east coasts of Florida. Surveys from U.S. Dept. of Agriculture engineers informed newly elected Albert Gilchrist that all water in the Everglades came from Lake Okeechobee. If the best use of the land is for agriculture, they needed to drain Lake Okeechobee. By digging 184 miles of canals during Gilchrists' term, Lake Okeechobee's water level dropped from 21 to 16.5 feet above sea level."[2]

"In 1916, the state built Tamiami Trail (U.S. 41 that connected Miami west through the Miccosukee territory to Everglades City and the Gulf of Mexico and continuing north. One interviewee remembers that the water along 41 used to be thick with green water snakes. What the Department of Transportation did not kill, the people in Everglades City caught and sold them to the Serpetariam in Miami. This road became increasingly more important to Everglades City, as trading and selling became more accessible by car. Residents and traders used the road to run rum and seafood such as mullet, shrimp, crabs. Major trading products later included drugs, leading to the 1983 Everglades City drug bust. Most of these items were brought in by boat from the Ten Thousand Islands and sold in Miami."[2]

Excerpts from: [https://web.archive.org/web/20131203030204/http://www.aoml.noaa.gov/general/lib/cedar61.pdf]

1. [Seminole Wars](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Seminole_Wars)
2. [RECOLLECTIONS OF ENVIRONMENTAl CHANGE 1N THE TEN THOUSAND ISLANDS, FLORIDA BAY AND THE EVERGLADES: THE ORAL HISTORY AND SOCIAL ISSUES OF USER GROUPS IN SOUTHWEST FLORIDA AND THE EVERGLADES](https://web.archive.org/web/20131203030204/http://www.aoml.noaa.gov/general/lib/cedar61.pdf)